-----

KISSDB file format (version 2)
Author: Adam Ierymenko <adam.ierymenko@zerotier.com>

http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/

-----

In keeping with the goal of minimalism the file format is very simple, the
sort of thing that would be given as an example in an introductory course in
data structures. It's a basic hash table that adds additional pages of hash
table entries on collision.

It consists of a 28 byte header followed by a series of hash tables and data.
All integer values are stored in the native word order of the target
architecture (in the future the code might be fixed to make everything
little-endian if anyone cares about that).

The header consists of the following fields:

[0-3]   magic numbers: (ASCII) 'K', 'd', 'B', KISSDB_VERSION (currently 2)
[4-11]  64-bit hash table size in entries
[12-19] 64-bit key size in bytes
[20-27] 64-bit value size in bytes

Hash tables are arrays of [hash table size + 1] 64-bit integers. The extra
entry, if nonzero, is the offset in the file of the next hash table, forming
a linked list of hash tables across the file.

Immediately following the header, the first hash table will be written when
the first key/value is added. The algorithm for adding new entries is as
follows:

(1) The key is hashed using a 64-bit variant of the DJB2 hash function, and
    this is taken modulo hash table size to get a bucket number.
(2) Hash tables are checked in order, starting with the first hash table,
    until a zero (empty) bucket is found. If one is found, skip to step (4).
(3) If no empty buckets are found in any hash table, a new table is appended
    to the file and the final pointer in the previous hash table is set to
    its offset. (In the code the update of the next hash table pointer in
    the previous hash table happens last, after the whole write is complete,
    to avoid corruption on power loss.)
(4) The key and value are appended, in order with no additional meta-data,
    to the database file. Before appending the offset in the file stream
    where they will be stored is saved. After appending, this offset is
    written to the empty hash table bucket we chose in steps 2/3. Hash table
    updates happen last to avoid corruption if the write does not complete.

Lookup of a key/value pair occurs as follows:

(1) The key is hashed and taken modulo hash table size to get a bucket
    number.
(2) If this bucket's entry in the hash table is nonzero, the key at the
    offset specified by this bucket is compared to the key being looked up.
    If they are equal, the value is read and returned.
(3) If the keys are not equal, the next hash table is checked and step (2)
    is repeated. If an empty bucket is encountered or if we run out of hash
    tables, the key was not found.

To update an existing value, its location is looked up and the value portion
of the entry is rewritten.
